M.U.G.E.N  F.A.Q
----------------
Updated 18 Aug 1999


Q. When I try to run MUGEN it gives me an error "Can't change video mode",
   even when I hit "yes" to switch to 640x480. What does it mean?
Q. When I run in 640x480 I have a tiny screen. How do I make it big?
Q. Why doesn't MUGEN work with my %s soundcard?
Q. How do I enable my gamepad?
Q. How do I add new characters to the select screen?
Q. How do I make an .act file?
Q. How do I make an .sff or .snd file?
Q. How do I make an .air, .cns, .cmd or .def file?
Q. Heck, how do I make a character?
Q. Why does my character have a colored box around him?
Q. Making a character is hard! What's the easy way?
Q. How do I make a stage and its background?
Q. How do I add music to the stage?
Q. How do I add music to the title, select and VS screens?
Q. How do I switch the sounds for the hits and announcers?
Q. How do I change the graphics for supers and hit sparks and life bars?
Q. How do I change the title screen and character select graphics?
Q. AIRView says it can't load fonts. What's wrong?
Q. Where are the docs and tutorials?
Q. Can MUGEN do tag-team or 3-on-3 battles?
Q. Can I sell a game I make with MUGEN?








Q. When I try to run MUGEN it gives me an error "Can't change video mode",
   even when I hit "yes" to switch to 640x480. What does it mean?

A. You need VESA drivers to run MUGEN. It's recommended you run in VESA2,
   since that is usually faster for 16-bit colour. Check readme.txt for
   more info on tweaking your graphics settings.


Q. When I run in 640x480 I have a tiny screen. How do I make it big?

A. Edit data/mugen.cfg, and look under [Video]. Set "stretch" to 1.
   This will run slower though, so it's recommended you find a VESA
   driver that gives you 320x240x16bit.


Q. Why doesn't MUGEN work with my %s soundcard?

A. MUGEN supports SB16 and compatibles. There are problems with SBLive
   and SBPCI.


Q. How do I enable my gamepad?

A. Edit to data/mugen.cfg and find [Input]. Set "P1.UseJoystick" to 1,
   and set P1.Joystick.type to the appropriate setting (2,4 or 6 button)


Q. How do I add characters to the select screen?

A. Open data/select.cfg. At the bottom, add a line that looks like:
     player, stages/stage.def
   Substitute "player" for the name of the player, and "stage.def" for
   the name of his stage. If he has none, you can use the default stage
   of "stages/stage0.def"


Q. How do I make an .act file?

A. You can do it one of several ways:
   1. If you have Adobe Photoshop, you can save .act files from
      a 256 color image.
   2. You can download PCXClean from our Tools section in our
      homepage. The PCXPal tool can be used to extract .pal
      files from a PCX file.
   3. You can get the Paint Shop Pro .pal to .act converter
      that we're working on. It's included in PCXClean v1.5.


Q. How do I make an .sff or .snd file?


A. You will need sprmaker and sndmaker. They are
   available in the MUGEN Tools package.


Q. How do I make an .air, .cns, .cmd or .def file?

A. They are all text files, that you can edit with EDIT
   or Notepad, or the like. CNS files can sometimes get
   too big for Notepad, however.


Q. Heck, how do I make a character?

A. It's not easy, but here's a brief outline to get started.
   Read up on the docs for more details.
   - download KFM from our site. He's a good reference.
     Also get his work files, which contain his sprites,
     and a txt file for piping into sprmaker.
   - get ready some sprites to use. Even just the
     standing sprites is enough to get started
   - make the txt file for the sff of his standing frames
   - make the sff using sprmaker
   - make a def file (or copy over and edit KFM's)
   - make an air file (or copy over and edit KFM's)
   - make a cns file (or copy over and edit KFM's) 
   - try it out, tweak the axes until it looks right
     type:  MUGEN player player   to test the char
   - add walking frames to the sff, then animate them in
     the air. Add jumping, getting hit, etc.
   - when you're done with basic movement, it's time to
     add attacks! That's when the fun and real work
     begins (also lots of frustration)


Q. Making a character is hard! What's the easy way?

A. Sorry, there isn't any. MUGEN is very flexible, but with
   that flexibility comes work.
   You can try replacing sprites for KFM and tweaking with
   his AIR and CNS to get started though.


Q. Why does my character have a colored box around him?

A. You need to set the color of that box to color 0 in
   his palette. Make sure your sprites are all 256 colors,
   with that same palette.


Q. How do I make a stage and its background?

A. You need a def and an sff in the stages/ directory.
   stages/stage0.def has some comments on how to make
   a background. We will work on real documentation later.


Q. How do I add music to the stage?

A. Edit the def file for the stage, and go to [Music].
   For "bgmusic", put in the name of the midi or mp3 file.
   For example, if you have music.mp3 in the sound/ directory,
   the line should read:
     bgmusic = sound/music.mp3
   Or if a file is on other drive the line should read:
     bgmusic = d:/music/mp3/music.mp3


Q. How do I add music to the title, select and VS screens?

A. For the title screen, open up data/system.def, and look
   under [Music]. Add the mp3 or midi to "bgmusic".
   For the char select and VS screens, open up data/select.cfg
   and check under [Music].


Q. How do I switch the sounds for the hits and announcers?

A. You'll need to build your own fight.snd in the sound/
   directory.


Q. How do I change the graphics for supers and hit sparks and life bars?

A. You'll need to change staticfx.sff and staticfx.air in the
   graphics/ directory.


Q. How do I change the title screen and character select graphics?

A. To put in a title image, replace graphics/title.pcx with one of
   your own. To change more of the title screen, open up
   data/system.def and edit the background parameters. The
   corresponding background is graphics/system.sff.
   To change the select screen stuff, open up data/select.cfg.
   The background sff is graphics/selectbg.sff.


Q. AIRView says it can't load fonts. What's wrong?

A. You need to run AIRView in the same directory as MUGEN.
   It uses the MUGEN fonts.


Q. Where are the docs and tutorials?

A. Uh, we're working on it. It's not easy. In fact, writing
   docs has the same appeal as doing a 50-page assignment.


Q. Can MUGEN do tag-team or 3-on-3 battles?

A. No. We'll consider it when we have more free time, and
   the more important stuff is out of the way (like docs).


Q. Can I sell a game I make with MUGEN?

A. You can't sell MUGEN betas.  MUGEN betas are free.  What you
   do with the characters and files you make is your decision.
